The Metaphysics of Morals (Sample)

May 3 2020

 Kant’s idea of the correct way of treating people is stated by way of a positive statement. Often, morals revolve around negatives first;  i.e. "thou shalt not . . .." Kant says, "(thou shalt) treat others as though the maxim by which you are acting will become a universal law of nature." In smaller words, treat others as you would have the world treat each other.

 This disallows people acting based on their own convenience or feelings, unless those feelings are centered on how they wish to be treated. Kant’s justification for such a prescription lies in four examples. The first presents a man who is so miserable that he considers ending  his own life. The question is whether or not so ending his life is moral and rational. The man is faced with two choices: kill himself to escape his misery, or live his life out with this misery. The maxim this man acts on is that through self-love; he is compelled to end his life because it promises to hold more misery than pleasure. Kant sees several rationality problems with this maxim. 
 
 First of all, the compulsion to feel good or end pain is only a smaller part of the compulsion to further one’s own existence. Secondly, to act according to that maxim would not allow this man to end his life, since it comes from a compulsion to further that which he seeks to end. Therefore the man is acting immorally and irrationally. This is not to say that his suffering should continue, but merely that the reason for which he gave to end his life is irrational and as such, is morally invalid. If everyone acted according to this false maxim, then everyone would kill himself or herself in order to extend their lives – a wholly contradictory way to exist. One cannot live after one has killed himself, indeed he would enjoy a life much shorter than if he had not killed himself. Kant says ultimately that the man is treating himself as a means to end his pain, which touches on a not-too-distant point, but one that deserves little attention in this essay other than to say that treating anyone as a means rather than an ends goes against Kant’s version of the Golden Rule.
